in this section will be discussing the word object model.
The programmatic representation of Microsoft Word itself will begin in this video.
I get in an overview of how the word object model functions its key aspect and key
components.
Let's go into the Exercises folder and then into the Section six folder Word Object model,
and here you'll find a diagram in pdf format,
which I'll be referring to during this video.
Let's open up the word file.
06 Syria one tables and you'll recognize this document as being generated by the code that
we created when we were discussing a ray variables to explore the word object model that's
going to develop visual basic to enter the visual basic editor One of the principal tools
that we have available.
It's one of the view menu,
the Object Browser.
This is a reference in which you can check the basic syntax that you should use when
working with all the different objects within Microsoft Word.
At the top of the object browser window,
you can choose which of the code libraries you want to examine.
So let's choose Microsoft Word.
We then have an alphabetical listing of all the objects within the Microsoft word object
model.
The classes are the blueprints on which each of the object is based,
as they are in the Microsoft word interface,
objects are arranged in a hierarchical fashion.
At the top of his hierarchy is Microsoft Word itself,
and this is referred to is the application object.
So anything that refers to the way that Microsoft itself operates will be inside the
application object.
And indeed,
all of the other objects in the Microsoft word object model our Children,
our child,
object or descendant objects off the application object.
When you click on one of the objects listed in the Object browser on the right hand side,
you'll see what's termed the members of that particular object.
The term member simply refers to the contents of the object,
the elements which are inside it.
There are two main types of member when we look at them in detail in the upcoming videos.
First of all,
we have methods that icon the green icon,
he notes,
methods,
methods of the actions which can be performed on that particular object so you can activate
Microsoft Word or,
if you want to exit Microsoft Word you had used a quick method.
The other main type of member is a property,
and there are two types of property.
First of all,
you have data properties which are basically attributes of the object.
Say,
for example,
we have the name property,
which is the name of the application.
Which,
of course,
is Microsoft Word.
But as you can see,
this is a read only property,
which means that your code can't modify it.
Similarly,
we have the version application DOT version,
which again is a read only property,
and the data type is a string.
The second type of property is an object property.
In other words,
an object which is a child off.
Another object,
the object properties of the application object.
Others objects,
which are Children off the application objects.
One example.
His options.
Options,
As you can see from the description here,
is not a data property.
So it's not a string or an inter Jetseta.
It is actually an object in its own right.
Hence,
when we scroll down the list of objects,
we find options listed and it too,
has its members.
You'll notice,
however,
that all of its members are properties and you'll also recognize a lot of them as being
equivalent to word options.
So back in the word interface,
if we go to file options,
properties that we were looking at are the programmatic equivalents to these options.
So,
for example,
if we're going to proof in auto correct options water format,
we have all these options for replacing.
Back in the Object browser,
we scroll down the list of properties here.
We confined the programmatic equivalent all those replace options as well as being a child
object of the application object.
The options object is also a member of the global's collection,
and this is a special collection of very frequently used objects.
In other words,
which can be referred to without first,
specify an apparent object.
This means that there are two ways of referring to the options Object in your code.
You can either say application but options or simply options.
Another child object of the application object,
which is also a member of the global's collection,
is the documents object.
The documents object represents all of the documents,
which are currently open in Microsoft Word.
It's what's known as a collection object in that it refers to a group of objects rather
than a single element.
And because it is a member of the global's collection again,
you have two ways of referring to it.
You can either say application dot documents or simply documents the members of collection
objects which used most frequently of those members involved in adding and removing items
from the collection.
And you also use the collection object to home in on a particular item within the
collection.
In the case of the documents collection object,
you use ad or open,
which are,
of course,
both methods.
These actions that can be performed on the documents collection and to remove items from
the collection you simply use close.
Another very frequently used member of collection objects is the Count property,
and this returns the number of elements in the collection.
So if we use the immediate window to enter a line of code,
we can query the number of documents by using question mark documents,
not counts.
Can we present We get the answer?
One.
There is one document currently open,
so when you want to start working with a particular documents,
your first quarter of call is normally the documents collection to specify a particular
item,
a particular document Within the collection.
You use the syntax application dot documents.
Or,
of course,
you can simply say documents and then in parentheses you identify which document you're
interested in,
and you can either do this numerically or texturally.
In other words,
you can either say which number which position that particular document occupies within the
collection.
All you can refer to it by name.
So if we wanted to refer to this particular document,
its name is 0601 tables.
We could either use that name.
All we could simply say documents one.
So if we look at the syntax,
the members off the document object.
There are three properties,
but refer to the name of an object or which relate to the name of an object.
First of all,
we have full name on this,
basically is theme the name of the document preceded by the path.
Then we have the pope,
just the folder,
the path to the folder that contains the documents,
and we also simply have name.
And that's simply the name of the document.
I not preceded by the path.
So if I want to say documents one,
not the full name.
When I press enter,
I get the path and the name of the document,
the way in which VB Avery first to the members of an object is often referred to as dot
syntax.
You start with an expression that refers to the object.
We then put a dot and then you refer to one of the members off that object.
Let's take a closer look at how dots in tax actually works.
Let's say that we want to target that particular cell within the document.
Our starting point would be the application objects.
Or additionally,
because the documents collection is a member of the global's,
we could simply start with documents.
But in terms of the hierarchy documents is a child off the application object.
So we have application dot documents or simply documents meant to refer to the specific
document that we're interested in.
We have application dot documents,
and we can either use the name 0601 tables Doc,
Doc,
ex.
All we can say application dot documents one because it's the one and only document in the
documents collection.
Then we need to home in on the tables within the document.
So we use the tables collection object.
And since we're interested in the first element within the tables collection,
we can use the syntax cables one.
Then we're interested in the second row.
So we refer to the Rose Collection object and to specify that we want road to in
parentheses we use to.
We then need to look at all the cells within that road.
So we refer to the cells object and to specify the first in parentheses,
we say sells one.
In order to modify the contents of that cell,
we use the range object.
The range object refers to anything that's inside the cell and,
of course,
word.
Being as versatile as it is,
we could have lots of different types of content.
We could even have another table or a picture.
Since we're specifically interested in modifying the textual contents of the cell,
we use the text property don't range,
don't text.
So this gives an example of how dot syntax works.
We go right from the application object and we used the collection object to home in on a
specific item within each collection.
And of course,
because the text property is a read write property.
We can actually use it to modify text in that cell,
said the immediate window.
I like the same thing.
Application dot documents one tables,
one rose to don't sells.
One still range,
text equals,
and this being text,
it has to go in quotes.
Look at me,
let's say monthly reports.
My press enter.
We now go back to the word.
You'll see that that bit of text has gone into the cell.
That's the basic introduction to how the word object model is structured.
How you access elements within the word object model.
Use in dot syntax in the remaining videos of this section will look more closely at working
with methods,
properties and some of the subtleties involved in manipulating the word object model.
The word object model is the programmatic representation of the many elements which form
part of the Microsoft word interface.
The object model contains both individual objects and collection objects,
which are essentially a raise of objects,
the methods of an object of the accents or operations which can be performed on the object
in question.
The properties of an object can be either.
It's attributes or any other objects,
which it contains to reference elements within the object Model V B A uses dot syntax to
systematically drill down within the object model hierarchy.